okay so I want to share with you a
little bit about the thread and the
thread you know a lot of people don't
think much about thread but a
manufacturer a designer thinks a ton
about the thread and so here's what you
watch for here's what you watch out for
I'm gonna share a little bit about
thread here's how just to start all
going to the what thread we use it we
the polyester I'll tell you right now
well you know we go into it we use a
polyester thread and that's one type of
thread you can use there are many
threads but polyester is what they use
for sails on ships is what these for
parachutes it's what they use for work
boots stuff that's in the Sun a lot is
what is what they use polyester for it
doesn't deteriorate with the UV rays and
so I guarantee you parachutists do not
skimp on thread so they do it right and
there are different thicknesses we use a
really thick polyester thread hmm
because our stuffs in the Sun a lot yeah
a lot of people take it out another is a
nylon thread which is a lot less
expensive it's really good
nylon threads good keep it out of the
Sun nylon deteriorates with with UV rays
and then you have cotton and cotton is
really good they depending on its use
everything everything lizards thanks for
good it's just gotta use it right not
use it in the wrong places cotton for
instance these little cotton balls like
this they have all these long little
short little fibers or you can get the
long cotton balls like in Egypt Egyptian
cotton you can get they have the longer
fibers you can get this is mainly North
America you get these short little
fibers and so you get these little
fibers if you use the cheap stuff for
the wrong use and you got to join them
together they kind of overlap a little
bit and you get you know a thick spot
and then you have another one and you
join them together these thicknesses see
that and then you try and
wined these things together and gets
gets real fat and so and so because of
these little joints to get fat so if you
want a fine thread that you have to use
longer fibers that's the whole idea with
these and with this the good cotton it's
just for instance in these long you know
joint here and now you can get a really
long thread with and it's real small
it's real thin and you can get several
of these and wind them together and then
you have a really strong thread so what
polyester with what we do with polyester
is is since it's synthetic they can have
this really long thread and then they
get a really long filament and the
filament thread order and you get
another one and you have you know four
or five depends on how many how thick
you want it and they don't have those
little joints to fall apart and so we
use the polyester thread because it's
easy long continuous filaments UV
resistant and it's really strong stuff
and you wouldn't know it but we use the
best thread weave and you know also it's
hard to tell the difference like way
back when when I was have my bags made
when I first got married and we moved to
Mexico and all that for a while to find
someone to make our bags I found a guy
real trouble smiley eyes named Karl and
he's really nice guy and I went in there
and I said hey I said I was looking
paying for polyester thread went back to
the sewing machine and I noticed it said
nylon thread and I said hey what's up
with nylons and I thought we were using
polyester he goes uh oh yeah yeah that's
right
um yeah hey you know good or you stop
using that nylon through who authorized
this you know same color as my polyester
thread and so but they were charge me
for it but they were using island so of
course I didn't believe him so I left
and about two days later I flew back in
New Mexico unannounced walk past
Paco how you doing the security guard
walked through the offices hi Carl hey
Mercedes hey you guys and walked on
through Daniel D what are you doing here
and I walked straight back to the sewing
machines and sure enough looked at the
cone a thread lifted it up nylon he had
put it right back on he was charging me
for the polyester but he was using nylon
because he was saving a ton of money and
so watch out that you're using polyester
instead of nylon or mixed or in order to
make sure that don't people aren't
substituting that's the killer doing
doing the manufacturing in a lot of
places is that less they substitute
materials so that's why we started her
own stuff our own making our own bags
because we're not substituting also let
me tell you a little bit about the
stitching stitching is really important
in your bags you want to make sure now a
sewing machine I would just talk talking
to some guys in New Zealand and they
said that a sewing machine is a
perforation machine and sew so you go
you know tear along the perforated edge
right so so you know tear a piece of
paper
it's a perforation machine and so they
said on sales to for the strength they
said the fewer the holes in a row the
better and so we do you get someone so
for those you're knocking off my bag my
stuff at least do it right so I'm using
five stitches an inch and now it's a
good it's a real good balance between
between thread and in leather and it's
not going to be rely too much on either
one so the thread tears here but even
even rocks wear away so the thread will
eventually tear snag eventually
something's gonna happen even polyester
is not you fully UV resistant its UV
resistant it's not UV proof okay so but
it's better than all the rest
unless you're Rumplestiltskin and you're
using gold we even out of threat out of
a straw but if you're not him
then use polyester but we double so we
use one stitch mainly for the lining and
the
one stitch for the for putting the the
leather together and together we have a
double stitch and in some place and then
we get to the end then we double back
again and we double back again so we
have nice a wad of leather or water
thread here at the end of the stitching
instead of just ending and then and of
course we burn the tip of the thread so
make sure there also if you're knocking
me off make sure you burn your thread so
anyway that's our stitching